Dissertation Journal


Intital Attempts at creating a Node Server

Almost entire failure...

node package manager (npm)
have worked with npm before, so dived in quickly only to find that I must have been operating with several things done for me that i do not seem to understand.

Making the server side things worked fairly easily following instructions got there in the end. After much failing to understand even the fundementals of what i was working with (again working at GE i had nearly all the setup done for me) I eventually managed to get the node server to send me a page on connection.

Cannot get the client side to run any code but the code in the file i send.. cannot make require work, cannot run code using <script src = blah blah/>. Read many unhelpful guides change things about a lot but making no progress for many hours.

Find many videos none of which seem to address my problems (almost certainly because they are deemed too stupid to need solving). I find one video that lets me make require work when running just by running the index.html in the browser but that doesnt connect to any server or the like. This tutorial does use a very similar file structure to that used at GE hence grabbing my attention.

Find a second tutorial which points me further in the correct direction but skips the bit about making require work on the client. Eventually I delete everything I have npm installed and reinstall using NPM install this time without a package but instead relying on a list of dependencies i made in the package.json file. Amazingly this actually works.

I copy the express 3.x compatible code from the socket.io website and through some dark magic it works.
Despite its reference to /socket.io/socket.io.js which as far as I am aware doesnt exist i cannot locate it for love nor money. Further adding to my confusion it still works even if i change it to ./socket.io/socket.io.js or remove the '/' entirely. Where is it finding this file? 

Because the only reason i got that to work was by stealing it, i have no idea how to run a different script... 'require' for instance which would make my life easier (potentially). 

I believe the issue is because now I am getting index.html from the framework "express" in node it now makes the request for the second document via this framework that i don't yet understand. so I can't simply put in the full path and file name and run it because the browser simply cannot find it.
